Step 1: Generate a Private Key

1. Login to cPanel
2. Click on SSL/TLS Manager in the Security section

3. Click on Generate, view, upload, or delete your private keys under Private Keys (KEY)
4. Set the Key Size to 2,048 bits
5. You can leave the Description blank -> Click on Generate


Step 2: Generate a Public Key (Certificate Signing Request)

1. Click on Return to SSL Manager
2. Click on Generate, view, or delete SSL certificate signing requests under Certificate Signing Requests (CSR)
3. Select the Key you’ve generated from the dropdown.


4. Enter your domain name for which you’d like to install SSL

Note - If you’d like to install the certificate for www.yourdomain.com, enter the domain as : www.yourdomain.com, yourdomain.com in the link.

5. Fill in your company details along with the email address
6. Set a random alphanumeric Passphrase (For example - abc123)
7. You can leave the Description blank -> Click on Generate

Copy & Paste the Encoded Certificate Signing Request into a notepad file.


Step 3: Enrolling the Certificate

If you’ve got your SSL or Digital Certificate from us, refer the steps given below to enroll your certificate.

Login to your hostgator account.
You will now see a page that lists all purchases made by you on our system.
Click on the domain name associated with the Digital Certificate.
Scroll to SSL Certificate section -> Click on “Issue Certificate”
Now copy the Certificate Signing Request (CSR) the that you’ve generated from your web server and paste it here.
Click Next.
Select the option to receive the verification email from Certificate issuing authority(Comodo).
If you select Other, ensure that the same email appears on the Whois listing of your domain name and Privacy protection is disabled for the domain.
Click on ‘Send application to Certificate Authority’.




Step 4 : Certificate received on email :

You’ll get an email from Comodo (Certificate Authority) on the approver email address
Copy the validation code from the email and click on the link provided.
Enter the validation code on page that opened and click Next.
After entering the code successfully, click on Close window.
That’s all. Give it a couple of hours and you’ll get an email which will have your SSL or Digital Certificate ready for installation. You can also see this certificate in your BigRock account.

NOTE : If you’ve got it from another provider, you can contact them to enroll the certificate using the CSR that you’ve generated

Step 5: Upload the Certificate :

Now you have to upload the certificate that you have received on email in cpanel.

1. Login to cPanel
2. Click on SSL/TLS Manager in the Security section
3. Click on Generate, view, upload, or delete SSL certificates under Certificates (CRT)
4. You can leave the Description blank.
5. Click on Save Certificate




Step 6: Installing the Certificate

Click on Return to SSL Manager
Click on Manage SSL sites under Install and Manage SSL for your site (HTTPS)
Select your domain name from the drop down for which you’ve uploaded the certificate
Click on Autofill by Domain




5. Now based on your Digital Certificate purchase, you need to copy(all 3 certificates on page) the Certificate Authority Bundle (CA Bundle) using the links given below:

For Positive SSL: https://support.comodo.com/index.php?/Default/Knowledgebase/Article/View/979/108/domain-validation-sha-2
For Comodo SSL: https://support.comodo.com/index.php?/Default/Knowledgebase/Article/View/979/108/domain-validation-sha-2
For Postive SSL Wildcard: https://support.comodo.com/index.php?/Default/Knowledgebase/Article/View/979/108/domain-validation-sha-2

Replace it with the existing Certificate Authority Bundle: (CABUNDLE) that you see on the cPanel

6. Click on Install Certificate -> OK

Give it about an hour for the changes to reflect and you’ll see your website resolving on https
